[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>MATTHEW LACROIX: They found
the ancient ruins of Eridu.
They went out in-- the
University of Oxford
in the 1940s went out,
identified where the site was,
walked around, took pictures,
and, as far as I know,
never returned.
>>GEORGE NOORY: What do
you mean, never returned?
>>LACROIX: That's the
ultimate question.
If you have something like
this that's so fundamentally
important, how
could something like
that just slip through
the cracks and disappear?
>>NOORY: How would you compare
some of these structures
to modern-day buildings today?
>>LACROIX: I think
that we're still
trying to catch up
with what they knew.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>LACROIX: The one block that's
shown there is the largest
single block in the world.
It's called the trilithon,
and it weighs 1,100 tons.
>>NOORY: We have machinery
today that can't move that.
>>LACROIX: Isn't that amazing?
>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
We've got a great
guest for you--
Matthew LaCroix, an
author and researcher.
And while attending
college, he began
studying archeology,
history, philosophy,
and quantum mechanics.
Matthew, welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Great to have you.
>>LACROIX: Thanks, George.
It's great to be here.
>>NOORY: By the way, I'm
still getting response
from the radio show you
did with us four years ago.
>>LACROIX: Yeah,
I really enjoyed
those coast-to-coast
shows with you.
That's why I've been so
looking forward to sitting down
to talk to you again.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in ancient archeology
and civilizations?
>>LACROIX: Well, it
really wasn't a path
that I planned for.
It was something that sort
of fell right into my lap
by accident.
And it was one of those
things that a lot of people
talk about being a
rabbit hole, where
you sort of glimpse
into it a little bit,
and then you want more--
>>NOORY: And it gets deeper
and deeper and deeper?
>>LACROIX: Yeah, exactly.
You just keep wanting to
ask more and more questions.
And then, before you know
it, you're all the way down,
and you're looking at things
in a completely different way,
and you're trying
to understand all
these mysteries of the past.
>>NOORY: These
past civilizations
are fascinating to
investigate, aren't they?
>>LACROIX: Yeah, it
captivates my imagination.
Trying to understand
something-- a culture that's
completely gone and vanished.
To try to imagine
how sophisticated
they could have been.
Especially based on the
evidence we're looking at.
We really get a much different
picture of those civilizations
than just being nomadic
hunter-gatherers
that then, all of a sudden,
eventually became civilized.
It's a very different story.
>>NOORY: Matthew,
where do you think
the cradle of
civilization began?
>>LACROIX: Well, that's
a great question.
And I think the history
books do get that right
with being the Fertile
Crescent of Mesopotamia,
near the confluence of the
Tigris and Euphrates River.
>>NOORY: Which is modern-day
Iraq right now, right?
>>LACROIX: Exactly, which--
a lot of this instability
in those areas preventing
a lot of archeologists
from getting into
those ancient sites.
But I really do
think that, as we're
going to get into
talk about, we're
talking about multiple
epics of different groups
that have been there,
rather than just one group.
>>NOORY: The Epics of
Gilgamesh and stuff like that?
>>LACROIX: Yeah, and that's one
of the great sets of tablets
that I love to read and find
some of the secrets in there.
>>NOORY: The late Zecharia
Sitchin was obsessed with
the Anunnaki, which he claims
came to us from another planet
called Nibiru, which is on a
3,600-year elliptical orbit.
It comes and goes.
Every time it gets
close, there's
some kind of major Earth change,
and then it goes away again.
But he claims they
came here, seeded
us because they needed workers
to pull gold out of the planet.
What do you think
of that theory?
>>LACROIX: Well, I want to
give Zecharia Sitchin credit
for really getting
the narrative started.
He was the one who brought
a lot of these really
mysterious texts that
a lot of people thought
were just poems or parables,
and he brought this to life,
talking about the Anunnaki, what
their role was with our story,
and how we came here.
And how we came about
with civilization rising
and the influences
that they had.
And so, to me, he was
the pioneer behind it.
But I wanted to know more.
I wanted to understand
directly from the tablets.
And that was one of the things
that became one of my major
focuses, was finding out
who translated them the most
accurately, and then really
getting in and studying them
for years and years and
years to really understand
what this ancient story was.
>>NOORY: So, Matthew, let's
look at some of these tablets,
and maybe you can
interpret them for us.
>>LACROIX: Sure.
>>NOORY: Here's our first one.
What is this?
>>LACROIX: So, the
first time that we're
going to be reading is not one
that most people are aware of.
It was one that I did some
digging and actually found.
And to me, it connected to so
many other tablets that I read.
>>NOORY: Where did you find it?
>>LACROIX: This was just
one of the ones where--
the University of Oxford
has a great library
cataloging a lot of these.
So, the tablet
essentially describes
how kingship descended
down from heaven,
and the first place that
kingship was lowered to
was Eridu.
And then it goes on to talk
about how, in Urdu, Alulim
became the king.
And it talks about this
extended amount of years
that he ruled for.
And it goes through
and it keeps mentioning
how the city would
fall, and the kingship
was taken to another city.
And then it goes
on and on and on.
But the part that I also
particularly want to point out
is at the end, when
it mentions here.
It says at the end,
then Sippar fell,
and the kingship was
taken to Suruppak.
And if you see right
below Suruppak,
it says, then the
flood swept over.
Giving us, George, a
way to try to measure
when this event occurred.
Because if we're
able to understand
when that flood was--
>>NOORY: Is this
the flood of Noah?
>>LACROIX: That's right.
This is the flood
which I've traced back
to really looking at things like
ice core samples, to geology,
and all these different
pieces of evidence
to what's known as the Younger
Dryas cataclysms, which
is around between 12,800 years
ago and about 11,000 years ago.
>>NOORY: Now, they
talk about the king
ruling for 28,000 years.
A king ruling for 36,000 years.
How can that be?
>>LACROIX: It's so
mysterious, isn't it, George?
And one of the things that
is the challenge behind this
was that they didn't actually
catalog these or record them
in years.
They recorded them in
what is known as shars.
And so the shars represented
a certain amount of time.
And interpreting that amount
of time has been difficult.
>>NOORY: Who do you think the
authors were of those tablets?
>>LACROIX: Well, that's a
good question because one
of the things you find when
you look at the Sumerians,
the ancient Sumerians
in Mesopotamia,
and then you look at later
cultures like the Akkadians
or the Babylonians,
you find versions
of those tablets that were
rewritten and translated
in the later groups.
But they all translate from
the ancient Sumerian stories
originally.
>>NOORY: Let's look
at our second tablet
and tell us what this is.
This is fascinating.
What are we looking
at here, Matt?
>>LACROIX: So, here we go.
We have another one of these
tablets that really brings
the same types of information
we find for the previous tablet
in here.
And this tablet is known
as the Eridu Genesis.
And I want to point
out that-- notice
the same type of language
that's used, George.
We see this royal
scepter from heaven,
the same thing as kingshipped.
Just another way
of saying kingship.
When it was lowered
from heaven, it
talks about how it
was brought down
and the first city was created.
And, as it says, just
like the other tablet,
Eridu was the
first city created.
The tablets mimic each other
with the same information.
Now, the name of
their, Nudimmud,
is actually another
name for Enki,
meaning that the first
city ever created--
>>NOORY: We've heard
of that name, sure.
>>LACROIX: --was basically
given to this leader, Enki.
And that provides
us with a background
to try to understand when
these cities existed,
who ruled in those
cities, and what
the influences were of those.
>>NOORY: Where is modern-day
Eridu now, do you think?
>>LACROIX: So, that's
a great question.
One of the areas that
I've really studied
is trying to figure
that out, right?
Where is Eridu?
>>NOORY: Where are
these places, yeah.
>>LACROIX: If it's the
first city ever created
for civilization, and it's
carried over by tablet
after tablet, to
me, it would be one
of the most important
ancient sites in the world.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>LACROIX: Well, one of the
things you find, George--
>>NOORY: And there should
be some remnants of this.
>>LACROIX: That's right.
And one of the things
that you'll find
is that there was an
archeological dig that
was done in the 1940s by
the University of Oxford.
And they went out into Iraq,
near the Euphrates and Tigris
rivers, and they found
the ancient ruins of Eridu
sitting out in the desert.
And if you go and
you look into images,
which I think we're going to be
showing one of those coming up,
you see this giant area
of disturbed ground
in the middle of the desert.
And there's nothing
around it, guarding it.
There's no fences.
There's no tourism.
There's no archeologists
doing digs.
>>NOORY: It's just there.
>>LACROIX: They went out--
the University of
Oxford in the 1940s
went out, identified where the
site was, walked around, took
pictures, and, as far as
I know, never returned.
>>NOORY: What do you
mean, never returned?
>>LACROIX: That's the
ultimate question.
If you have something like
this that's so fundamentally
important, how
could something like
that just slip through
the cracks and disappear?
And to this day, it's sitting
in the middle of the desert
without any kind of
archeological study being
done on it.
And it's largely being
ignored by modern academics.
>>NOORY: If you had the guest
the complexity of the space,
how big is it?
>>LACROIX: It's enormous.
It contains its own
ziggurat, as well as
other remnants of temples and
many, many other structures.
But it's so ancient
that all we have left
are largely sand that's
blowing in over it
and buried it underneath
layers and layers of debris
and sediment.
>>NOORY: Matthew,
when they found
the Sphinx in Egypt, the
sand was up to its eyes,
practically.
Just the little top of
it was sticking out.
Would that be the same
thing as this city, Eridu?
>>LACROIX: That's right.
It seems like, rather than
history all falling into this
6,000-year window, things are
much older than modern academia
wants to give credit for.
And so what we find is
that different time periods
of cultures that came
and went, and then
other civilizations found
their remnants, their ruins,
and either built on
top of it, or it just
remained in the desert,
and sand blew in
until it was almost covered up.
>>NOORY: Why aren't
they digging it out?
>>LACROIX: Well, again,
that's that question that
takes you down that
rabbit hole, just
like we mentioned with Eridu.
This amazingly
important ancient site
sitting there in
a war-torn region
that is being ignored and
not even being uncovered.
It really begs the
question of, is this just
disrupting the
narrative that's been
established for civilizations
in human history?
And perhaps those things
that don't fit in,
those pieces of archeology
that don't fit that narrative,
are just quietly being
pushed to the side.
>>NOORY: Are there any
megalithic structures there?
>>LACROIX: There is.
There's actually one in Iraq.
And the reason why I
don't think there's
more megalithic structures
there is the type of geology.
But there is one.
It's known as Khinnis Rock, and
it's actually just a little bit
north of Nineveh near the
ancient aqueducts of Jerwan.
In Nineveh, there's a
place called Khinnis Rock,
and it's this massive rock
relief on a vertical plane.
And it basically has
the Assyrian versions
of the Sumerian gods, of
Enlil and his consort.
And his name in that is Assur.
And he's up on this massive
rock relief, basically
passing knowledge to
these other civilizations.
And it's so ancient, though,
George, that a lot of it
is broken away and there's
only pieces of it that remain.
But just like Eridu nearby,
it's not being studied at all.
It's just sitting there,
largely ignored today.
>>NOORY: Are there structures,
megalithic structures,
all over the planet, Matthew?
>>LACROIX: There
is, and some of them
are much more
sophisticated than others.
But what we really
do find is that when
we can trace the type
of building practices--
no brick and mortar, but using
straight, giant megalithic
rocks and basically carving
them with such precision
that you can't even fit a
human hair or a piece of paper
through them.
When we can identify that
type of stone masonry,
we know that that's one of what
I call the lost civilizations.
Those ancient cultures
that had advanced building
practices and knowledge,
and even tools, that became
wiped out and disappeared,
and then cultures came later--
>>NOORY: Just gone,
like the pyramids.
>>LACROIX: That's right.
And they tried to mimic them,
but they weren't able to.
>>NOORY: How would you compare
some of these structures
to modern-day buildings today?
>>LACROIX: I think
that we're still
trying to catch up
with what they knew.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>LACROIX: I know, and that
seems hard for some people
to wrap their heads around.
But if you go to a place like
the Valley Temple of Egypt,
or you go across
the world into Peru
and you go to Ollantaytamo
or Sacsayhuaman,
or you look at any
of those areas--
Machu Picchu, where some of
the older structures are.
Some of the precision that's
with those stone masonry
is, from a lot a
lot of the experts
that have gone to look at it,
even beyond our capability
today.
>>NOORY: On the Gaia show
"Ancient Civilizations,"
Andrew Collins talks
about Baalbek in Lebanon.
It's an amazing structure,
as you well know.
>>ANDREW COLLINS: Baalbek is
one of the big enigmas of which
there is very little answers.
We're talking about a huge
complex that was constructed
during Roman times.
A massive temple dedicated
to the god Jupiter.
Amongst the foundations
of this incredible complex
are stone blocks weighing
around 1,000 tons apiece.
But the big question comes--
did they reuse those
stones, those big ones?
The thousand tonners.
That's the thing.
And if they did re-use them, who
the hell created those stones
in the first place?
And why so large?
>>NOORY: That's incredible,
what he just said, Matthew.
What do you think?
>>LACROIX: To me, when I've
studied the megalithic ruins
around the world,
like we mentioned,
not just being something
like Stonehenge,
but more of using massive
blocks to connect together
to create some kind of an
incredible structure, what you
find is that Baalbek
was where they
perfected their megalithic tool
design to create these blocks.
Andrew Collins did
a great job showing
some of those huge blocks that
are on some of the lower parts.
>>NOORY: How did they move them?
>>LACROIX: Absolutely amazing.
We don't really know.
But I will tell you, George,
that the one block that's
shown there is the largest
single block in the world.
It's called the trilithon,
and it weighs 1,100 tons.
>>NOORY: We have machinery
today that can't move that.
>>LACROIX: Isn't that amazing?
And they've actually
had construction workers
look at some of those enormous
blocks to try to understand.
And our largest cranes today
would have difficulty, if not
even be able to move
some of those blocks.
>>NOORY: What do
you think happened,
Matthew, with the knowledge
that simply disappeared?
I mean, they had a civilization.
Obviously, they made
these structures.
We don't know how.
But where'd the information
go from that point
to where we are today?
It's gone.
>>LACROIX: Yeah, so
what we find when
we look at a combination
of ancient writings
and geologic evidence
and ice core samples,
we really find that
there have been
cyclical series of cataclysms,
these disasters that
have happened on the Earth.
And it seems like
the ancient cultures
knew about them, though.
And they created
temples to try to map
the heavens to try to understand
when they would happen.
But when you look at
example like Baalbek,
there's actually a
quarry near Baalbek
where they were quarrying
those enormous stones.
And when you find is that the
largest stones were actually
not even taken out
of the ground yet.
They were in the middle
of working on them.
And what you find is--
>>NOORY: They're still there?
>>LACROIX: Yeah,
they're still there.
And they never got a chance to
take them out of the ground.
Which means that, instead
of their culture having
some kind of a slow
downfall, it was
a rapid end to their culture--
>>NOORY: It was abrupt.
It just ended.
>>LACROIX: Exactly.
And all the work
stopped out of nowhere,
just like we find in Aswan,
Egypt with the giant obelisk
and a lot of the other
structures in the world.
These cultures had a very
rapid end to their building,
and they largely
disappeared after that.
>>NOORY: And just disappeared.
Could it have been in a
craft, and off they went?
>>LACROIX: The disappearance of
the technologies and the wisdom
that they had, we don't
really know where it went.
>>NOORY: Could it
be ET information?
>>LACROIX: Well,
that's the thing,
is we're not really
sure where it came from.
And we can try to
perhaps connect
the Anunnaki for being perhaps
these wisdom bringers that
provided some of this knowledge,
but we don't truly understand.
But one of the peculiar things
that a great researcher, Brien
Foerster, who I'm
sure you're aware of--
>>NOORY: Good guy.
>>LACROIX: Yeah, absolutely.
He's one of my favorites.
He points out that we don't
find any tools anywhere
in the world.
>>NOORY: Nowhere.
>>LACROIX: Not one.
Exactly.
So where did they go?
And that's one of the
bizarre things about this,
is that if whoever
built those left,
it would make sense
that the tools they had,
they took with them.
>>NOORY: Right.
I mean, that's the
only explanation.
It's not like they
buried them, did they?
In the Hall of
Records somewhere?
>>LACROIX: If they
buried them, we
would have found
something by now.
>>NOORY: So, they're all gone.
>>LACROIX: That's right.
And those cultures that
came after them tried
to mimic them in many ways.
Machu Picchu is
actually a great example
for those who want
to go look at those
and check out images
or visit the site.
But you find those
incredibly precise blocks
on the lower levels.
And on the top, what we
think of as the Inca,
you find more primitive
brick and mortar
where they were
trying to mimic them,
but they had nowhere
near the knowledge
that those previous
cultures did.
>>NOORY: On one hand,
Matthew, it's exciting.
But it's also
frustrating, isn't it?
>>LACROIX: It is because there's
such a lack of coordination
with the academic
world to get in there
and actually study these.
And so it's left to individuals
that are just doing this
because it's a passion thing
for them, because they want--
>>NOORY: They love this.
>>LACROIX: Yeah, we--
>>NOORY: As you do.
>>LACROIX: Yeah.
We truly love this because
it's uncovering the truth.
The truth of the past
that has been buried
and remains a mystery
to most of society.
>>NOORY: I'm going to
ask you to speculate.
>>LACROIX: Sure.
>>NOORY: What do
you think happened
to these civilizations?
>>LACROIX: There's been
two camps, I think,
on this side of looking
at-- one camp looks at this
as some kind of an
ancient cataclysm
from a series of
comets or asteroids.
And then the other camp,
individuals like Robert Schoch,
look at this from some
kind of a solar event.
Some kind of a mass
coronal, mass ejection,
or a solar outburst.
>>NOORY: It still
doesn't explain
how the tools have disappeared
and stuff like that.
>>LACROIX: That's
right, it doesn't.
But the only thing that
is interesting though,
George, is, when you read
some of those tablets,
it mentions how the Anunnaki
actually created that event
to occur on Earth, that
deluge, that destructive event.
And they mention how they left.
It actually states they
left here during that event.
So, maybe they brought
those tools back with them.
>>NOORY: In a craft somewhere?
>>LACROIX: We don't know.
That's actually
one of the most--
>>NOORY: When you say left,
what do you mean by that?
>>LACROIX: Well,
it's so peculiar,
George, because all around
the world, Saudi Arabia
all the way down
through South America,
we find these giant
doorways, these gateways.
Gateways to the gods where
it just seems to go nowhere.
It's just a giant stone doorway,
either in a rock cliff--
>>NOORY: Like a portal's
behind it or something?
>>LACROIX: That's right.
It seems like there
was technology
that once existed that no
longer is around anymore.
And all those
technologies that they
had to utilize those
things are gone,
and now we just look at some
kind of a rock structure,
and it doesn't really
make any sense to us.
>>NOORY: They open this portal.
In they go.
And they're gone.
>>LACROIX: From as much
as that I've studied this,
really looking at the Anunnaki
and these ancient influences
of them, it seems
like the doorway
theory of being able
to travel somewhere
makes more sense
to me than a craft.
>>NOORY: David
Paulides in his book,
"Missing 411," talks
about how people simply
vanish in state parks.
They're just gone.
And it could be very
well the same possibility
that they're stumbling into
some other portal or dimension
that you can't see.
And they never can come back.
>>LACROIX: That's a great point.
I don't think we
fully understand,
even though we think we're so
advanced in our modern society
today.
I think there's a lot
of the nature of reality
and understanding these
types of ancient mysteries
that we just don't
understand today.
>>NOORY: Do you
think a catastrophe
occurred, primarily?
Or do you think they
just picked up and left?
>>LACROIX: Yeah, or a series of
catastrophes, actually, George.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>LACROIX: Seems like
maybe there would
have been several in a row.
Because when I
study these tablets
and how they state that these
different epochs occurred
with these kingships in
these different cities,
I've actually separated into
three different time periods.
Meaning that there were
likely two, potentially three,
of these events.
>>NOORY: Could
they happen again?
Catastrophes?
>>LACROIX: Well, that's
the big question, right?
If you look at this and you
look at ice core samples from
Greenland and you try to get a
snapshot for when these types
of events occur, it seems like
they fall around a 12,000-
to 13,000-year cycle.
Which, if you were to look at
when that last occurred based
on what we mentioned
during the Younger Dryas,
were right in that
time period right now.
>>NOORY: There are many
symbols all around this planet
of the ancient worlds.
Tell me about that.
>>LACROIX: Symbols
hold, in my opinion,
the greatest secrets of all.
And it's one of the most
difficult things, though,
because you have a
linear way to look at it,
and then you have a
symbolic way to look at it.
And so the challenge
is to try to blend
those to find the
truth because I
do think that you have to
take both sides of that
to understand it.
But the ancient cultures
were absolutely brilliant.
They were able to create
a symbol that represented
an entire representation
of what they were trying
to say in one single depiction.
And once you understand
what those depictions are,
you can get a glimpse into what
really happened back long ago.
>>NOORY: Give us some examples,
Matt, of some of these symbols.
What could they be?
>>LACROIX: Yeah, sure.
So, if someone was to
go to the hospital,
or they see an
ambulance go by, you
see that's the Rod of Asclepius.
The rod with the
serpents wound around it.
Right?
And then you see the wings of
Hermes on the caduceus symbol.
These are ancient symbols.
But yet, today, the
serpent is considered
demonized by a lot of religious
groups in modern academia.
Doesn't make any sense
if it's a symbol that
represents health and higher
consciousness and ascension.
>>NOORY: It's a medical symbol.
That's what I think.
>>LACROIX: That's right.
Whereas on the other side, you
see symbols like the eagle,
as well, which I believe
have been completely inverted
to their opposite
representations.
The serpent always represented
knowledge and reaching
higher states of energy
and consciousness.
>>NOORY: What about the symbols
of, like, the pine cone?
What does that mean?
>>LACROIX: Yeah,
so the pine cone
is another one of these
extremely important symbols
once you start looking at things
like the eagle in the serpent,
and then you get into
things like the pine cone.
And what we find, George,
is that the pine cone
has been shown in
these lost civilization
locations around the world.
We find giant murals
with these pine cones
being depicted in every
one of these locations,
nearly, around the world.
And they're always
shown the same way.
They hold the pine
cone in their hand,
and they point it
towards someone.
>>NOORY: Like it's some
object of some kind.
>>LACROIX: And what
I believe based
on what I've studied on
what that pine cone means
is the pine cone represents
the passing of knowledge.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>LACROIX: So, if you
were pointing a pine cone
at someone, it would be
you providing knowledge.
And I mean knowledge
of everything.
It's not just
knowledge of one area.
It is the totality
of all knowledge.
>>NOORY: What about a handbag?
>>LACROIX: So, the
handbag is another one
of these mysterious symbols that
is always present, or almost
always present,
with the pine cone.
So, the way I try
to figure things out
is, once you know what
one symbol is, it'll often
have connections to the other.
So, in this case, the pine cone
was the passing of knowledge,
and the handbag was
being held to their side.
That was what that was
what this sacred pine
cone was supposed to be inside.
They're both symbolic.
So, it would be where you
would carry the knowledge.
The totality of all the
knowledge would be the handbag,
and then the pine cone would
be the passing of knowledge
to those civilizations.
>>NOORY: Where do you
find all these symbols?
>>LACROIX: You find them all
over the world, actually.
And if you were to sit down
and really study them, just do
a little search for
pine cone and handbag,
you'll see that they're
depicted in nearly every one
of these regions
around the world where
we find this mysterious
evidence of these more
advanced buildings, and
more advanced building
practices, and the
types of writings
that tend to be
much more ancient
and go back to the times when
we have this information that
tells us about those mysteries.
>>NOORY: Are these
symbols etched on blocks
of stone or anything like that?
>>LACROIX: They're
beautifully drawn.
Actually, the art in some
of these murals and stelas
is truly incredible.
And one of the things that I
find so fascinating about them,
George, is you can
stare at them for hours
because every single
little thing that was drawn
has some kind of
a meaning to it.
Some kind of a symbolic meaning.
And so by understanding what
those murals and stelas say,
what they're trying to depict,
even though you don't have,
potentially, words
to go with it,
you can understand a story based
on just what the depiction is
trying to represent.
>>NOORY: What would
you say, Matthew,
in your career is the
most bizarre symbol
that you've come across so far?
>>LACROIX: The most
bizarre symbol?
That's a good one.
Well, I guess early
on the swastika symbol
was always a very strange symbol
because I grew up thinking, oh,
this is an evil Nazi
symbol all my life.
Realizing that the swastika
was just an ancient symbol
that cultures had
all around the world.
>>NOORY: The Nazis made it evil.
>>LACROIX: Exactly.
>>NOORY: It wasn't
evil until then.
>>LACROIX: They took it, and
they turned it into a symbol
to use for a very bad reason.
Whereas those
symbols were just all
taken from much more
ancient cultures.
>>NOORY: Interesting,
interesting.
Who were the symbol makers?
>>LACROIX: Well, it seems
like all roads lead back
to the Anunnaki.
Every time I do this research,
I feel like every time
I want to look for influences
of other connections somewhere,
it just seems to
always lead back
to this group of
the Anunnaki, which
I do believe maybe a group
of potentially beings
from many different
places, not just one.
It's a term used to blanket
the entire group of--
think about beings
that are not from here.
They're ascended beings
>>NOORY: Well, I think
Sitchin was on to something
with his theories, don't you?
>>LACROIX: Absolutely.
As I said, Sitchin paved
the way for all of this,
to understand what kind of
influences they had here
and how they
influenced our story.
And I think that our story goes
hand in hand with the Anunnaki.
In fact, I think we
are, in many ways, them.
But a version that's much
different than it used to be.
>>NOORY: There are
some experts who do not
agree with Zecharia Sitchin.
They think his interpretation
of the Sumerian tablets
are all screwed up and wrong.
>>LACROIX: I have come to--
when I really looked at this
and I came to say, I want to
know what this story really
was, and I want to know if
Sitchin was telling the truth.
What I find that-- he did
make some really, really good
points.
But there were some areas
that I did disagree with.
And that was where I began to
truly cross reference and study
those tablets to try to
see what that story was.
And he definitely got us
the right direction on that.
There was just some minor areas
that I disagreed with, just
in terms of what the
purposes of certain numbers
or in certain origin stories
and things like that.
>>NOORY: I had the
honor of giving him
a Lifetime Achievement Award at
one of the Conscious Life Expo
events several years ago--
before he died, obviously.
And he's on stage, and
I'm giving him the award.
And at that time, I didn't
know exactly how old he was.
Ended up being 90
years old when he died.
But I asked him, I said,
in front of this crowd,
Mr. Sitchin, congratulations.
Here you are.
How old are you?
And he turned to the
microphone and went,
George, that's very rude.
But that's the
kind of guy he was.
>>LACROIX: Yeah, yeah.
>>NOORY: But the work he did,
investigating the Anunnaki
and piecing things
together, I thought,
was absolutely fabulous.
>>LACROIX: Well,
we don't know where
we'd be right now with this
research if it wasn't for him.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>LACROIX: We think about it
where some of these experts
have come and translated
these tablets.
But then they get buried
in some obscure book
somewhere because they're not
considered the significance
of what they really represent.
Because mainstream academia
is really handcuffed
with how far they can go talking
about some of these topics.
>>NOORY: In your opinion, what
does the Anunnaki represent?
Who are they?
>>LACROIX: They represent the
keys to this entire story.
How civilizations came out of
being nomadic hunter-gatherers.
How all of the
knowledge of astronomy,
mathematics, metallurgy,
agriculture, where
everything originated from.
And it's not just
someone's opinion.
The Sumerians come
out and clearly say.
That they state that all
of that was handed down
from above to them.
Not that they
discovered it somehow.
>>NOORY: How could they make
that up if it didn't happen?
>>LACROIX: Exactly.
And how could the Sumerians
have detailed accounts
of where all the planets
are and their ratios
without the use of a telescope?
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
There are some tablets that
depict the solar system.
They couldn't tell
without a telescope.
They didn't have that
kind of equipment.
>>LACROIX: That's right.
>>NOORY: Somebody
told them something.
>>LACROIX: That cylinder
seal is called VA243,
and it depicts an
exact representation
of our solar system,
thousands of years
before the first
telescope was invented.
>>NOORY: How do
you explain this?
>>LACROIX: To me,
it would just be
knowledge that had to have
been provided to them.
Either that, or they had
some ability later on
if you view the heavens.
We don't really fully know.
>>NOORY: But where'd it go?
>>LACROIX: Well,
that's the mystery.
>>NOORY: If they had a
telescope, where is it?
>>LACROIX: That's the point,
just like the tools being gone.
>>NOORY: Same thing.
>>LACROIX: We don't know.
But one of the things
I will point out
is that some of these
time periods that I've
tried to lay down and
some of the timeline
work that I've done
based on those tablets
would put some of the early
groups of the Sumerians much,
much older than we're told.
>>NOORY: If the
Anunnaki seeded us,
do you think they are the ones
who continue to come back,
all these UFO
reports that we get?
And they're just checking
up on their farm?
>>LACROIX: Yeah, I think
that's a really good question.
It's interesting, though,
when you look at other texts.
You look at ancient Hebrew
texts, like the Book of Enoch.
You look at ancient Vedic texts,
the Bhagavad Gita and others,
they keep mentioning these
groups that watch us.
That just watch us from beyond.
And the Sumerian tablets,
they call them the Igigi,
whereas these other writings
they call them the Watchers.
And they seem to
be associated with,
like you mentioned,
some kind of beings
that seem to be watching.
Just observing how
things are going here.
>>NOORY: How did we do?
That's what they're
probably thinking.
>>LACROIX: Yeah, like how is
human civilization doing now,
right?
>>NOORY: Maybe the
next experiment,
we'll make them a
little different.
>>LACROIX: Yeah, I know.
And hopefully there won't
be an experiment, right?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
We've got another last tablet
I want to look at and have
you interpret it for us.
Let's take a look.
What are we looking
at here, Matthew?
>>LACROIX: OK, so this is one
of my favorite tablets of all.
This is called the
Legend of Etana.
Now, right there, you get the
name "Legend," which makes it--
>>NOORY: I'm going to let
you read this one for us.
Go ahead.
>>LACROIX: And it
makes it seem like it's
a legend, like it's not real.
But the more I study
this, it goes along
with the same comparisons
of the same information.
So, it says, "They
planned a city.
The gods laid its foundations.
They planned the city of Kish.
The Igigi founded its brickwork.
Let him be there, the
people's shepherd.
Let Etana be their architect.
The great Anunnaki gods,
ordainers of destinies,
sat taking their counsel
concerning the land.
The creators of
the four regions,
establishers of
all physical form."
>>NOORY: Now,
interpret that for us.
>>LACROIX: This is
brilliant to me, George,
because what it does is,
when we read the other two
tablets, the Sumerian King
List and Eridu Genesis,
it mentioned how Suruppak was
the last city before the flood.
But this tablet mentions how
Kish was the first city created
after the flood.
>>NOORY: After the flood.
>>LACROIX: Exactly.
And we know that because
the Sumerian King
List mentions that in the
separate set of writings.
>>NOORY: Now, I thought the
flood wiped out civilization.
So, who is the one who would
have created this new city?
>>LACROIX: Well,
that's the thing.
There were survivors.
There were individuals
that did survive.
And there were certain
bloodline kings
that carried on those
traits like before.
And Etana was one of
those bloodline kings.
When I read that
quote, it wasn't
that he just became King because
he happened to be powerful
and lived there.
He was chosen to become
King, very specifically.
>>NOORY: Do they
make mention of Noah
in anything that you've seen?
>>LACROIX: Absolutely.
Another tablet,
called the Atra-hasis,
is the original story of what we
think of as the biblical story
of Noah.
But that name was a religious
name that was used later.
His original name was
either Atra-hasis, Ziusudra,
or Utnapishtim.
>>NOORY: The Anunnaki themselves
had a tremendous influence
on our past.
What about our present?
>>LACROIX: That's
the big question
besides when the next cataclysm
is going to come, I think,
is that are they still
influencing our reality here.
Are we still under
their control?
And it's difficult to
understand whether or not,
when we look at the control
systems that exist here,
keeping consciousness suppressed
and all the different things
that happen, whether
or not that's just
a bunch of powerful,
elite secret societies,
or if it is still under the
umbrella of the Anunnaki.
We don't really know.
>>NOORY: If you were
speaking before a group
of archeological experts
and you were showing
them slides of the Anunnaki
and things like that,
what would you tell them?
What would your theme be?
>>LACROIX: I would
discuss with them
how could we have these detailed
conversations between them,
discussing mankind and
wanting to wipe them out,
and how they felt bad after-- if
they're simply just this myth,
and it's symbolic,
and they're not real?
There's so much evidence to
prove that there was very, very
tangible influences that came
from somewhere because think
about it.
Knowledge just can't
come from nowhere.
It has to come from somewhere.
>>NOORY: It's got to
originate from something.
>>LACROIX: Exactly.
And so, if a lot
of the mainstream
doesn't want to acknowledge that
the Anunnaki are real deities
or beings, they just
want to act like it's
some kind of a force
of nature or something,
connecting to the planets
or something like that.
But really, I
think that they are
the keys to the entire story.
>>NOORY: I would sit back
in the crowd if it were me,
and I would raise my
hand and go, Mr. LaCroix,
were they extraterrestrial?
Did they come here?
>>LACROIX: It definitely
seems that they came here
from somewhere.
But the big question is where.
And we find bits and pieces
of evidence here and there.
There's actually a
really neat ancient text
that a lot of people
aren't familiar with called
the Kolbrin Bible
that was actually--
>>NOORY: Yes, I've
heard of that.
>>LACROIX: In Egyptian
and Celtic writing.
And it actually talks about--
>>NOORY: It's amazing.
>>LACROIX: Yeah, and it mentions
that these creators that
created this place
here for mankind,
they came from
somewhere far, far away.
Not of this realm.
>>NOORY: Do you think God the
Bible, angels of the Bible,
were extraterrestrial?
>>LACROIX: I think it's all
just the same Anunnaki story.
I think the angels
and demons, it's
just a way to show the different
roles that they played.
I think it's all the same thing.
>>NOORY: One thing for sure.
Something absolutely spectacular
happened on this planet
a long time ago.
>>LACROIX: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And we're still
seeking out these answers.
>>LACROIX: I feel
like the rabbit hole
is going to just continue to
go deeper and deeper because I
want to point out that those
tablets that we just read,
all of those came from
the same ancient library
called the Ashurbanipal Library.
And when that was uncovered in
1849 by Austen Henry Layard,
they found thousands
of cuneiform tablets.
Thousands.
And today, George?
Less than 200 have been
translated by modern academics.
>>NOORY: That's astounding.
>>LACROIX: They're sitting in
a dusty back room somewhere.
>>NOORY: But they're
there somewhere.
>>LACROIX: They're
>>NOORY: They haven't been
destroyed, altered, smashed.
>>LACROIX: Whether
or not they're all
at the University of
Oxford or some of them
are kept down in the
Vatican archives,
we don't know because,
as a society that
are seeking these answers, being
outside of modern academia,
we don't have access
to all of these.
We just have access
to what we're given.
>>NOORY: Matt, why
is it so important
that we get these answers?
>>LACROIX: Because
if you want to know
the true story of something,
you have to go back
to the earliest form of it.
When we look at
things like the Old
and the New Testament,
what we find
is that it's just
being rewritten
from previous stories.
So, I wanted to
find answers, and I
realized that the
only way to find those
was to go back to
the pure source.
And that's what
cuneiform writing is.
It is the oldest form of writing
that exists on the planet.
And we know that,
because anything
that would be paper records
or anything else that's
not in a clay tablet wouldn't
have survived till today.
>>NOORY: These
tablets that were made
we're done approximately
how long after the events
that they talk about?
>>LACROIX: We find that
some of the tablets
were rewritten from an earlier
story and then carried on.
But many of those tablets--
>>NOORY: So hundreds of years?
Thousands of years?
>>LACROIX: Thousands of years.
We can trace most
of those tablets
to well beyond 12,000 years ago.
>>NOORY: Wow.
That's astounding.
>>LACROIX: I know, to think
that a message like that
could be preserved.
But that's the brilliance
behind these cultures.
>>NOORY: Do you think the
writers of the tablets
are just as baffled and were
just as baffled as we are
today?
>>LACROIX: I actually think
they had a lot more answers
than we have today.
>>NOORY: What if they
made this all up?
What if it's just a
story, a great book?
>>LACROIX: Well,
that's the thing
that I've obviously pondered
and wondered myself because I'm
an objective person.
But the more you look at
what they state, and then you
find those ancient
ruins of those cities
in the locations they mention,
it all becomes very real.
It's one thing to
consider Eridu a myth.
But then, when you
find it in the desert--
>>NOORY: You find
something, that's right.
>>LACROIX: Yeah, and then
it's being deliberately hidden
and suppressed, you say, aha.
So, this really is significant.
>>NOORY: What do you
think Saddam Hussein knew
before he got killed?
>>LACROIX: Saddam
Hussein is a very--
he was a character
that definitely knew
about his ancient past in Iraq.
I think a later ruler,
a later individual who
was President of Iraq,
it came later, actually
mentioned some of
those ancient stargates
and some of those ancient
archeological sites in Iraq
out of being proud.
I think that Saddam did
know a lot of great secrets.
>>NOORY: He played his cards
wrong, though, didn't he?
>>LACROIX: Well, I mean,
look what happened.
Not to justify his
actions, saying
he was a great man or anything.
But look at what happened
after he was wiped out.
Now all those sites
are under civil war
and we can't even
get access to them.
>>NOORY: Or destroyed,
in some cases.
>>LACROIX: Exactly,
or destroyed.
The gates of Nineveh, which
is the front gate where
the Ashurbanipal
Library, the greatest
mass of cuneiform tablets
in the world, that gate
was destroyed by ISIS.
>>NOORY: If you could get
one major question answered
that you've been seeking,
what would that be?
What would that question be?
>>LACROIX: I think
I would really
like to know where the
Anunnaki came from,
or maybe when they came from.
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
What about Sitchin saying they
came from this extra planet
in our solar system?
That you don't seem to
be jumping for joy with.
>>LACROIX: Well, the
thing is, though,
even if I don't necessarily
agree with them coming from
there, there definitely is
another planet that exists out
beyond our--
>>NOORY: It's out
there somewhere.
>>LACROIX: Oh, there
is definitely a planet.
That's one of the
areas that I've done
quite a bit of research to.
Things like the Pioneer 10
probe and others have found.
There are secrets beyond
our inner solar system
that are very, very interesting.
>>NOORY: I mean, for
Sitchin to make this--
and we go back to him again--
to make this
incredible assertation,
that the Anunnaki came from this
extra planet, is remarkable.
But he claims he interpreted
that from the Sumerian tablets.
>>LACROIX: It does mention it.
It calls it Nibiru.
And the way you want
to translate it is you
can either consider it
some kind of a planet
or some kind of a temple.
We don't fully know.
One of the most important
things to bring up
is that Sumerian
is a dead language.
Sumerian cuneiform died
out thousands of years ago.
And so, when Austen Henry Layard
first uncovered those tablets,
it took over 20 years
before the first person,
George Smith in 1875, actually
could translate the first one.
It was a dead language
for thousands of years.
>>NOORY: This interpretation,
is it just Sitchin's?
Or is he backed up by these?
>>LACROIX: Yeah, that was
what I really wanted to know.
I wanted to actually
understand who the best
translators in the world was.
Because Sitchin was good at
understanding and interpreting
things, but he wasn't
an expert Assyriologist.
George Smith, who I
mentioned was the first one
to actually translate
a cuneiform tablet,
and he had studied
ancient Assyrian cultures
for four years and
years and years.
And it took over 20 years,
but he finally-- in 1875,
he translated the first
tablet ever in human-- well,
in our human history, I should
say, in the last 5,000 years.
And he translated--
the Epic of Gilgamesh
was the first tablet
to ever be translated.
>>NOORY: You've got a
passion for this, Matt.
What drives you?
>>LACROIX: I love
ancient mysteries.
I have this deep
connection to our past
being much more complex
than we've been told.
And that journey of
discovering that truth
has been the core of
my drive to do this.
>>NOORY: What's
your next project?
>>LACROIX: Actually, right now,
I'm co-writing my third book
with Billy Carson where we--
we're calling it
the Epic of Humanity
because using tablets and
everything from Vedic text
to cuneiform text to
ancient Hebrew texts
to Aztec and Maya text,
we want to understand
what's the story of our
story from what they say
and what the evidence says,
not what modern academia says.
>>NOORY: Matt, Thanks.
For being on "Beyond Belief."
>>LACROIX: Thank
you so much, George.
It was a pleasure.
>>NOORY: It's one
of the greatest
mysteries of humankind.
What happened to the Anunnaki?
Where did they go?
Where were their tools?
Where were the artifacts?
Will we ever know?
Maybe, one day.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC]